This is a practical IP version 4 subnetting lab.
Now, this is a practical lab helping you test and verify your knowledge of IP version 4 subnetting.
We're not simply gonna talk about the theory of IP version 4 subnetting you need to subnet, but in
addition configure the network and get it working.
You need to configure IP addresses on routers, on switches, and on DHCP servers and then you need to configure
the DHCP servers to allocate IP addresses to the clients in the correct subnet.
So once again this is a practical demonstration and lab of IP version 4 subnetting, in this packet
tracer lab.
We have multiple sites, site 1 and site 2 connected via serial links to an Internet router.
You need to configure the network as follows, you've been allocated subnet 1 9 2 1 6 8 1. 0 slash 24 and
you need to subnet this network into 4 subnets as follows subnet 1 needs to be allocated to site 1
subnet 2 to the serial link between router 1 and the Internet router, subnet 3 to site 2 and subnet
4 to the link between router 2 and the Internet router.
Now, we are not going to initially optimize the subnetting you're only gonna create 4 subnets and
then split them across these four networks in a subsequent video we'll optimize the serial links to
use a slash 30 mask and then make more subnets available for additional sites.
But in this initial topology, you simply need to create 4 subnets.
You should configure the router as per the instructions in the diagram.
In other words this interface on router 1 should use the last IP address in the relevant subnet.
This interface should use the first IP address in the subnet on the serial link.
The Internet router is gonna use the last IP address in both subnets on the serial links and router
2 will once again use the last IP address in the subnet on the Ethernet interface and to the first
IP address on the serial interface.
You need to configure the switches with the second to last IP address and the subnet and the DHCP servers
with the third last IP address in the subnet, as an example at Site 1 the switch such 1 should be
configured with the second last IP address and the subnet and the DHCP server with the third last IP
address.
The same should be done for switch 2, in site 2 and the third last IP address should be configured on
the DHCP server at site 2.
You also need to configure the DHCP servers to allocate IP addresses to the clients in the relevant subnets.
So as an example DHCP server 1 should allocate IP addresses to PC 0,
PC 1 and PC 2 in the subnet allocated to this network, DHCP server 2 should allocate IP addresses
in the correct subnet to PC 3 4 and 5.
Once you've done your configuration verify that PCs can access cisco.com and facebook.com
using their browsers.
The server 8.8.8.8 is configured as a DNS server.
So think of this as the Google DNS server that is configured with A records for cisco.com and facebook
.com
So once you've got your network configured with the correct IP addresses your DHCP servers are allocating
IP addresses to the clients, the clients should be able to access cisco.com and facebook.com,
again this is the DNS server in the network.
Okay, so can you complete this lab?
Can you work out the relevant subnets, the relevant IP addresses, and configure the routers switches and
DHCP servers to get this network working.
Download the packet tracer file and see if you can complete the lab yourself.
Otherwise watch the next video where I complete the lab.